By using the Fatum Project bot you do so at your own risk! In no way are we responsible or will be held liable for any positive or adverse affects or consequences from the use of this platform



INSTRUCTIONS

Select the center of the map:

The Points will be calculated inside a given radius around the center. It is recommended to set your current location as a center.
By default calculation area is set to 5000m circle around London.  
To change the area, you can send your current location via telegram mobile-app in-built function "Send location", it will be set as a map center.
If you are using Telegram Desktop, find desired location on Google Maps and sen a link to it like this:  https://www.google.com/maps/@54.9831153,73.3224661,21z
(The link should have the same format as in example)

Select area radius:

If the map center is your current location, area radius will be the maximum proximity to the target point. To change it, seng command /setradius.
You will receive an answer: "Send new radius in meters (for example 3000)", send new radius then.
Or you ca just send it like that "/setradius 3000" (without quotes)
To drop settings to default, send command /setdefault.

Commands for Points generation:

/getpseudo - will send you a random location, generated by simple pseudorandom numbers generator (not quantum).
/getquantum - will send you a random location, generated by Quantum Random Numbers Generator source, set in configuration (by default it's QRNG - https://qrng.anu.edu.au/)
/getattractor - will send you an attractor point. For it's generation a few thousands of quantum-random points will be created and then program will find an area with maximum density of these points and calculate it's center as an attractor.
/getvoid -  The opposite of the attractor point; A place with the minimum density of the point will be found.
/getpair - will send you both attractor and void-attractor points at once.

Attractors power:

The power of the attractor is a relative coefficient to verify that the attractor is generated correctly. It is based on the ratio between the density of points near the attractor and in the entire search zone as a whole. In theory, if it is less than two, then it is difficult to call it an anomaly. 